feat(pie-docs): DSW-2475 toast overview page (#2040)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/components/toast/overview/overview.md

---
eleventyNavigation:
    key: Overview
    parent: Toast
    order: 1
eleventyComputed:
    priorityQueue: "{% include './priority-queue.json' %}"
shouldShowContents: true
permalink: components/toast/
---

## Overview

> Toasts are used to inform users about processes within a system. They can also provide contextual feedback. They appear temporarily at the bottom-left of the screen and disappear after a certain time period or when the user performs an action to remove them.

Reviewer: Just checking; is it always bottom left, even for RTL?

Reviewer 2: updated to remove the left part.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/overview.svg",
    alt: "A toast placed at the bottom of the page."
} %}

---

## Dos and Don’ts

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [

>             "Only one toast at a time.",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            "Display only one toast at a time.",
```

Reviewer 2: updated in both design and code

>             "Limit your message to 35 characters (abbr) for one line toast or 90 characters (abbr) for multi-line toast.",

Reviewer: What is (abbr) referring to? It's not clear to me.
```suggestion
            "Limit your message to 35 characters for a single-line toast or 90 characters for a multi-line toast.",
```

            "Be mindful of how often you trigger toasts.",
            "Use for short messages that confirm an action taken by a user."
        ]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [

>             "Interrupt the user experience.",

Reviewer: I don't think this is very clear advice. What exactly do we want to avoid?

>             "Use a toast of critical information that user needs to action   consider using a pop-alert instead.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "Use a toast for critical information that the user needs to action. Consider using a pop-alert instead.",
```
Also, what do we mean by pop-alert? A popover? A modal?

Reviewer 2: updated

            "Place the toast over any navigation."
        ]
    }
} %}

---

## Anatomy

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/anatomy.svg",
    alt: "Anatomy of a toast.",
    width: 426
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Icon:** Leading icon that visually supports the label.",
        "**Message:** Informs the user of the action they have performed.",
        "**Action (optional):** [Button](/components/button/) action to either dismiss the toast or to undo the action.",
        "**Close (optional):** [Icon button](/components/icon-button/) to close the Toast."
    ]
} %}

---

## Variations

### Default

> A default one-line toast, this can be used with or without an icon or action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A default single-line toast; this can be used with or without an icon or action.
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/variations-default.svg",
    alt: "A toast component on its default variation.",
    width: 300
} %}

### Multi-line

If you require additional text for your message, please use the multi-line component. Maximum of 3 lines.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/variations-multi-line.svg",

>     alt: "A toast component on its multi-line variation.",

Reviewer: Suggested alt text to be slightly more useful
```suggestion
    alt: "A toast component with multiple lines of text. The text is truncated so that a maximum of three lines are shown.",
```

Reviewer 2: done

    width: 300
} %}

---

## Modifiers

### Strong

> To create a stronger impact with your message, you can use strong variant. This uses colour to back-up your message

Reviewer: What do we think of this?
```suggestion
To create a stronger impact with your message, you can use strong variant. This uses colour to increase the visual impact of the message.
```

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-strong.svg",

>     alt: "Multiple toasts with strong modifier.",

Reviewer: The info, warning, success and error toast variants with the strong modifier applied.

Reviewer 2: done

    width: 866
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [

>         "**Info:** Providing contextual information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Warning:** Providing non-critical information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Success:** Providing positive information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Error:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if Toast is correct to use it might be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "**Info:** Providing contextual information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Warning:** Providing non-critical information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Success:** Providing positive information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Error:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if toast is the correct component to use. It may be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner"
```

    ]
} %}

### Subtle

To create a message with less prominence you can use the subtle variant.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-subtle.svg",

>     alt: "Multiple toasts with strong modifier.",

Reviewer: Is this a variant or is it just the default? Depending on the answer you may want to update this to either say "without the strong modifier" or "with the subtle modifier".

Reviewer 2: updated to the subtle modifie

    width: 788
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [

>         "**Info:** Providing contextual information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Warning:** Providing non-critical information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Success:** Providing positive information about the progress of an action",
>         "**Error:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if Toast is correct to use it might be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner",
>         "**Neutral:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if Toast is correct to use it might be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner"

Reviewer: I think the neutral description also needs updating as it doesn't seem to fit.
```suggestion
        "**Info:** Providing contextual information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Warning:** Providing non-critical information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Success:** Providing positive information about the progress of an action.",
        "**Error:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if toast is the correct component to use. It may be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner.",
        "**Neutral:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if Toast is correct to use it might be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner"
```

>         "**Neutral:** Providing critical information about the progress of an action. Please review if Toast is correct to use it might be better to use a dialogue, notification or banner"

Reviewer: This neutral description doesn't look correct to me

    ]
} %}

### Icons

> When incorporating an icon into a Toast, it is essential to ensure that the icon clearly conveys the intended feedback. You should only use the icons built into the component and not use a different icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using an icon inside the toast component, you should make sure that the icon clearly conveys the intended meaning. Only use the icons that have been built into the component - do not supply your own.
```

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.image,
        items: [{
            src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-icons-do.svg",
            width: "456px",

>             alt: "Two toast components with close icon button"

Reviewer: I don't think the close button is relevant for this section
```suggestion
            alt: "Two toast components using approved icons for the error and info states."
```

Reviewer 2: done

        }]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.image,
        items: [{
            src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-icons-dont.svg",
            width: "280px",

>             alt: "A toast without close icon button nor dismiss button"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            alt: "An error toast using an unapproved icon"
```

Reviewer 2: done

        }]
    }
} %}

### Actions 

If you are using actions, only use the pre-built button in the toast.

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.image,
        items: [{
            src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-actions-do.svg",
            width: "456px",
            alt: "Two toast components with close icon button and dismiss button"
        }]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.image,
        items: [{
            src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/modifiers-actions-dont.svg",
            width: "280px",

>             alt: "A toast with a wrong dismiss button variation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            alt: "A toast incorrectly using a custom dismiss button"
```

Reviewer 2: done

        }]
    }
} %}

---

## Sizes

### Height

> The toast has a minimum height of 48px when displaying one line of body copy, and it should not exceed 122px in height to accommodate up to three lines of multi-line body copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toast has a minimum height of 48px when displaying one line of text. It should not exceed 122px in height, which is enough to accommodate up to three lines of text.
```

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/sizes-height.svg",
    alt: "A regular toast and a multi-line toast.",
    width: 300
} %}

### Width

The toast has a minimum width of 300px and a maximum width of 420px.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/sizes-width.svg",

>     alt: "A regular toast and a multi-line toast.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt: "A 420px wide toast.",
```

Reviewer 2: done

    width: 420
} %}

---

## Overflow

> If the body copy extends beyond one line, it should automatically wrap to multiple lines. Yet, ensure that multi-line text is truncated to a maximum of three lines. For longer text content, consider utilising a pop-up component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the body copy extends beyond one line, it should automatically wrap to multiple lines. Multi-line text will be truncated so that it does not exceed three lines. For longer text content, consider utilising a pop-up component.
```
I'm not sure what is being suggested when we say "pop-up component".

> If the body copy extends beyond one line, it should automatically wrap to multiple lines. Yet, ensure that multi-line text is truncated to a maximum of three lines. For longer text content, consider utilising a pop-up component.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what is being suggested when we say "pop-up component"

Reviewer 2: @RLumleyJET will relook the whole section

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/overflow.svg",
    alt: "A regular toast and a multi-line toast.",
    width: 968
} %}

---

## Priority queue

Only one toast is displayed at a time. When toasts are consecutively or simultaneously triggered, their display order is defined by the priority queue.

{% componentDetailsTable {
  tableData: priorityQueue
} %}

---

## Behaviours

### Auto-dismiss
By default the toast automatically disappears after 5 seconds. However, the user can manually dismiss the toast before the timer ends if a close option is present. Additionally, users can pause the auto-dismissal by hovering over the toast, with the timer resetting once the mouse moves away.

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/behaviours-toast.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without close icon button nor dismiss button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast without a close icon button nor a dismiss button."
```

Reviewer 2: done

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/behaviours-toast-with-close-icon-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without with a close icon button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a close icon button."
```

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/behaviours-toast-with-dismiss-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without a dismiss button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a dismiss button."
```

Reviewer 2: done

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

### Persistent

> If the toast includes a close icon button or button with a dismissing purpose, the toast can remain persistent until the user manually dismisses it using either of these actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the toast has a close icon button or a dismiss button, the toast can be persisted until the user manually dismisses it.
```

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/behaviours-toast-with-close-icon-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without with a close icon button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a close icon button."
```

Reviewer 2: done

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/behaviours-toast-with-dismiss-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without a dismiss button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a dismiss button."
```

Reviewer 2: done

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Interactions

> If the toast includes a close option, the user can select either option to automatically dismiss the toast.

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/interactions-close-icon-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without with a close icon button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a close icon button."
```

Reviewer 2: done

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/toast/interactions-dismiss-button.svg",
      width: 300,

>       alt: "A toast without a dismiss button."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt: "A toast with a dismiss button."
```

Reviewer 2: updated

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Layout

### LTR position

> A toast should be located at the bottom left of the page’s content are; excluding any navigation.

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/layout-ltr-position.svg",

>     alt: "A toast placed at the bottom of the page in LTR position."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt: "A toast placed at the bottom-left of a page with a left-to-right direction."
```

Reviewer 2: updated

} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Wide:** 24px padding <br /> **Narrow:** 16px padding"
    ]
} %}

### RTL position

> A toast should be located at the bottom right of the page’s content are; excluding any navigation.

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/layout-rtl-position.svg",

>     alt: "A toast placed at the bottom of the page in RTL position."

Reviewer 2: updated

} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Wide:** 24px padding <br /> **Narrow:** 16px padding"
    ]
} %}

---

## Examples

### LTR examples

> Here are some examples of Toast in left-to-right context:

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/example-ltr-toast.svg",

>     alt: "A Toast in left-to-right context.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt: "A toast componentn in a left-to-right context.",
```

Reviewer 2: updated

    width: 272
} %}

### RTL examples

> Here are some examples of Toast in right-to-left context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of the toast component in a right-to-left context:
```

Reviewer 2: updated

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/toast/example-rtl-toast.svg",

>     alt: "A Toast in right-to-left context.",

Reviewer 2: updated

    width: 272
} %}

---

## Resources

{% notification {
  type: "warning",
  message: "We’re currently working on updating our Toast documentation, please see the resources below."

> } %}

Reviewer: Do we still need this notification?

Reviewer 2: removed
